---
layout: post
title: Computer Photography- Week 1 LearnLog
date: 2016-08-29
categories: omscs

---

This term I am taking Computer Photography course which gives us better insights on the computations involved in image processing.

Below is the learn log for the first week of the course.

## Introduction

There are various modules provided in the course. Below are the list of modules and topics covered under them

* Introduction
* More about Filters
* Deep learning about cameras
* Image blending/munging
* Computational Photography
* Videos Computations
* Computational Cameras
* Advanced Topics - Special Cases

The main expectations of the class is to learn about the tech related to photography.

"Love to learn computing with photographs"

## What is Computational Photography?

To understand computational photography we should understand what is Photography?
Photography - is way of recording light either electronically or chemically to generate artifacts

Computational Photography is the complete workflow of how light is captured and image is produced

## Dual Photography

One of the example of CP. A research paper by Stanford.Main context is if we swap light source and camera rays of light get converted to novel form of image.
   ### Novel Illumination
   ### Also using the reflections we can get different images

## Panaromas

Wide angled image produced by combining various images in sequences taken together.

### Steps Involved in creating Panaromas
* Take Pictures
* Detecting and Matching
* Warping
* Fade, Blend/Cut
* Cropping(Optional)

### Types of Panaromas
* Planar/Rectilinear
* Vertical
* Cylindrical/Rotational
* Path/Route

## Why Computational Photography?

In this chapter we learnt about the pevasiveness of photography

* Why should we study camera? 
* Cameras and Everywhere- Detailed analysis of camera sales over various periods
* About various images
    * Participatory Images
    * Institutional Images
    * Incidental Images

Main objective of learning computational photography is to understand how cameras can be evolved in next 10 + years. Also the social culture change due to it. Also improving image search methods.      